---
layout: post
title:  "View Command"
author:  "ErikGahlin"
date:   2023-05-30 08:10:24 +0200
image:  "/assets/allocation-by-site.png"
published: true
tags: [JFR, JDK 21, View]
---

JDK 21 comes with a new JFR **view** command that displays aggregated event data in the shell. The command can be used to view information about an application without the need to dump a recording file, or open up 
[JDK Mission Control](https://jdk.java.net/jmc/)
.

    $ jcmd 1739 JFR.view hot-methods
    
                             Java methods that execute the most
    
    Method                                                        Samples Percent
    ------------------------------------------------------------- ------- -------
    sun.java2d.marlin.Renderer._endRendering(...)                    1659  42.99%
    sun.java2d.marlin.MarlinTileGenerator.getAlphaRLE(...)            592  15.34%
    sun.java2d.marlin.MarlinCache.copyAARowRLE_WithBlockFlags(...)    447  11.58%
    sun.java2d.marlin.MarlinCache.copyAARowNoRLE(...)                 246   6.37%
    sun.java2d.marlin.Renderer.addLine(...)                            89   2.31%
    sun.java2d.marlin.Renderer.copyAARow(...)                          86   2.23%
    sun.java2d.marlin.ArrayCacheInt.fill(...)                          73   1.89%
    ...

To use the command, first start a recording:

    $ java -XX:StartFlightRecording -jar my.jar

Once the application is running, the [jcmd](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/specs/man/jcmd.html) tool can be used to list all running Java processes:

    $ jcmd  
    37417 my.jar
    37418 jdk.jcmd/sun.tools.jcmd.JCmd

Use the PID or the name of the jar/class file together with **JFR.view** and the name of the view to display, for example:

    $ jcmd 37417 JFR.view allocation-by-site

                                         Allocation by Site
    
    Method                                                  Allocation Pressure
    ------------------------------------------------------- -------------------
    java.lang.StringUTF16.compress(char[], int, int)                     37.50%
    java.lang.Integer.valueOf(int)                                       13.75%
    spec.jbb.infra.Util.TransactionLogBuffer.getLine(...)                 9.22%
    java.math.BigDecimal.valueOf(long, int)                               8.92%
    spec.jbb.CustomerReportTransaction.process(...)                       7.55%
    java.math.BigDecimal.layoutChars(boolean)                             5.71%
    ...

The **allocation-by-site** view is built from the **jdk.ObjectAllocationSample** event that was added in **JDK 16**. To see a list of all available views, just omit the view name. JDK 21 comes with 70 predefined views, with more to be added in future releases. The views are grouped into three categories: **Java virtual machine**, **Environment** and **Application**. 

    $ jcmd 37417 JFR.view
    ...
    
    Java virtual machine views:
     class-modifications       gc-concurrent-phases longest-compilations   
     compiler-configuration    gc-configuration     native-memory-committed
     compiler-phases           gc-cpu-time          native-memory-reserved 
     compiler-statistics       gc-pause-phases      safepoints             
     deoptimizations-by-reason gc-pauses            tlabs                  
     deoptimizations-by-site   gc-references        vm-operations          
     gc                        heap-configuration  
    
    Environment views:
     active-recordings        cpu-information       jvm-flags          
     active-settings          cpu-load              native-libraries   
     container-configuration  cpu-load-samples      network-utilization
     container-cpu-throttling cpu-tsc               recording          
     container-cpu-usage      environment-variables system-information 
     container-io-usage       events-by-count       system-processes   
     container-memory-usage   events-by-name        system-properties  
    
    Application views:
     allocation-by-class   exception-count       native-methods       
     allocation-by-site    file-reads-by-path    object-statistics    
     allocation-by-thread  file-writes-by-path   pinned-threads       
     class-loaders         finalizers            socket-reads-by-host 
     contention-by-address hot-methods           socket-writes-by-host
     contention-by-class   latencies-by-type     thread-allocation    
     longest-class-loading thread-count         
     contention-by-thread  memory-leaks-by-class thread-cpu-load      
     exception-by-message  memory-leaks-by-site  thread-start         
     exception-by-site     modules       

By default, a view will cover the last 32 MB of data, although not further back than 10 minutes. To set a custom time range, use the parameters **maxage** and **maxsize**. They work similarly to the **maxage** and **maxsize** parameters for the **JFR.dump** command.

    $ jcmd my.jar JFR.view maxage=1h maxsize=2000MB gc-pauses
    
    GC Pauses
    ---------
    
    Total Pause Time: 2,93 s
    
    Number of Pauses: 272
    
    Minimum Pause Time: 0,471 ms
    
    Median Pause Time: 7,82 ms
    
    Average Pause Time: 10,8 ms
    
    P90 Pause Time: 10,2 ms
    
    P95 Pause Time: 20,9 ms
    
    P99 Pause Time: 256 ms
    
    P99.9% Pause Time: 256 ms
    
    Maximum Pause Time: 256 ms

The format of the output can be controlled using the parameters **width**, **cell-height** and **truncate**. The **width** parameter sets the maximum number of characters to use, for example 120. If not set, the table will be sized automatically. 

The cell-height parameter determines the number of lines to use inside a table cell. It’s 1 by default, but can be set to a higher value in case the text doesn’t fit. This option is especially useful for displaying multi-line stack traces.

Finally, the **truncate** parameter can be set to **beginning** or **end** to decide if the first or last characters should be omitted in case the text overflows. By default, truncation happens at the end.


    $ jcmd my.jar JFR.view cell-height=3 truncate=beginning width=80 system-processes
    
                                    System Processes
    
    First Observed Last Observed PID   Command Line                                
    -------------- ------------- ----- --------------------------------------------
    13:22:57       13:24:29      13028 C:\Program Files (x86)\Intel\Intel(R) Rapid 
                                       Storage Technology enterprise\IAStorIcon.exe
    13:22:57       13:24:29      16200 C:\Program Files\Git\git-bash.exe           
    13:22:57       13:24:29      7232  C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio\202
                                       2\Enterprise\Common7\IDE\PerfWatson2.exe    
    13:22:57       13:24:29      18216 C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio\202
                                       2\Enterprise\Common7\IDE\VC\vcpackages\x86\V
                                       CPkgSrv.exe                                 
    13:22:57       13:24:29      8536  C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio\202
                                       2\Enterprise\Common7\IDE\devenv.exe         
    13:22:57       13:24:29      15228 C:\Program Files\Microsoft Visual Studio\202
                                       2\Enterprise\Common7\ServiceHub\Hosts\Servic
                                       eHub.Host.CLR.AnyCPU\ServiceHub.Host.CLR.exe
    13:22:57       13:24:29      14128 ...es\Microsoft Visual Studio\2022\Enterpris
                                       e\Common7\ServiceHub\Hosts\ServiceHub.Host.C
                                       LR.AnyCPU\ServiceHub.TestWindowStoreHost.exe

The view command can also be used against a recording file, by using the bin/jfr tool. A file can be created by setting the filename parameter with the **-XX:StartFlightRecording** option. When the JVM exits, the recording contents are written to the file.

Instead of a view, the name of a JFR event can be specified. In the following example, a custom event is created using the [jdk.jfr](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/api/jdk.jfr/jdk/jfr/Event.html) event API. In the rendered output, the column headers get their name from the [@Label](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/api/jdk.jfr/jdk/jfr/Label.html) annotation and the bytes formatting comes from the [@DataAmount](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/20/docs/api/jdk.jfr/jdk/jfr/DataAmount.html) annotation.

    import jdk.jfr.*;

    public class Example {

      @Name("example.FreeMemory")
      @Label("Free Memory")
      static class FreeMemoryEvent extends Event {
        @Description("An approximation of the amount of memory available for allocation")
        @Label("Free Memory")
        @DataAmount(DataAmount.BYTES)
        long free;
      }

      public static void main(String... args) throws Exception {
        for(int i = 0; i < 3; i++) {
          checkFreeMemory();
          Thread.sleep(1000);
        }
      }

      public static void checkFreeMemory() {
        FreeMemoryEvent event = new FreeMemoryEvent();
        event.begin();
        event.free = Runtime.getRuntime().freeMemory();
        event.commit();
      }
    }

To run the program and display the events:

    $ java -XX:StartFlightRecording:filename=recording.jfr Example.java
    $ jfr view --cell-height 2 FreeMemory recording.jfr

                                      Free Memory
    
    Start Time  Duration Event Thread     Stack Trace                   Free Memory
    ---------- --------- ---------------- ----------------------------- -----------
    12:25:29   0,0213 ms main             Example.checkFreeMemory()        240,7 MB
                                          Example.main(String[])                   
    12:25:30   0,0114 ms main             Example.checkFreeMemory()        238,0 MB
                                          Example.main(String[])                   
    12:25:31   0,0218 ms main             Example.checkFreeMemory()        237,7 MB
                                          Example.main(String[])                   

To inspect what events are contained in a recording, use the **summary** command:

    $ jfr summary recording.jfr

The parser that reads the file only parses the events that make up the view, which makes the process quick in most cases. Internally, the views are built using a query language. To see the query that makes up a view, specify the **—verbose** parameter.

    $ jfr view --verbose gc recording.jfr
    
                                      Garbage Collections
    
    Start        GC ID Type                     Heap Before GC Heap After GC  Longest Pause
    (startTime) (gcId) (eventType.label)            (heapUsed)    (heapUsed) (longestPause)
    ----------- ------ ------------------------ -------------- ------------- --------------
    13:16:44         0 Young Garbage Collection       409,7 MB        3,1 MB        10,0 ms
    13:16:44         1 Old Garbage Collection           3,1 MB        2,6 MB        21,8 ms
    13:16:45         2 Young Garbage Collection       330,4 MB        3,9 MB        1,40 ms
    13:16:45         3 Old Garbage Collection           3,9 MB        3,5 MB        32,1 ms
    13:16:45         4 Young Garbage Collection         3,5 MB        3,5 MB       0,471 ms
    13:16:45         5 Old Garbage Collection           3,5 MB        3,5 MB        20,0 ms
    13:16:58         6 Young Garbage Collection         2,0 GB       33,0 MB        29,4 ms
    ...


    COLUMN 'Start', 'GC ID', 'Type', 'Heap Before GC', 'Heap After GC', 'Longest Pause'
    FORMAT none, none, missing:Unknown, none, none, none SELECT G.startTime, gcId,
    [Y|O].eventType.label, B.heapUsed, A.heapUsed, longestPause FROM GarbageCollection AS G,
    GCHeapSummary AS B, GCHeapSummary AS A, OldGarbageCollection AS O,
    YoungGarbageCollection AS Y WHERE B.when = 'Before GC' AND A.when = 'After GC' GROUP BY
    gcId ORDER BY G.startTime

In the above example, the view consists of events from four different event types, **jdk.GarbageCollection**, **jdk.GCHeapSummary**, **jdk.YoungGarbageCollection** and **jdk.OldGarbageCollection**. The events are tied together using the **gcId** in the **GROUP BY** clause. The query language is currently experimental to simplify for OpenJDK engineers to define views. In the future, it may be exposed for end-users as well.

To try out the new **view** command, download early access binaries of [JDK 21](https://jdk.java.net/21/)


### Command line reference

    jfr view [--verbose]
             [--width <integer>]
             [--truncate <mode>]
             [--cell-height <integer>]
             <view>
             <file>
    
      --verbose               Displays the query that makes up the view
    
      --width <integer>       The width of the view in characters. Default value depends on the view
    
      --truncate <mode>       How to truncate content that exceeds space in a table cell.
                              Mode can be 'beginning' or 'end'. Default value is 'end'
    
      --cell-height <integer> Maximum number of rows in a table cell. Default value depends on the view
    
      <view>                  Name of the view or event type to display. See list below for
                              available views
    
      <file>                  Location of the recording file (.jfr)




    jcmd <pid> JFR.view [options]
    
    Options:
    
    cell-height   (Optional) Maximum number of rows in a table cell. (INTEGER, no default value)
   
    maxage        (Optional) Length of time for the view to span. (INTEGER followed by  
                  's' for seconds 'm' for minutes or 'h' for hours, default value is 10m)
   
    maxsize       (Optional) Maximum size for the view to span in bytes if one of
                  the following suffixes is not used: 'm' or 'M' for megabytes OR
                  'g' or 'G' for gigabytes. (STRING, default value is 32MB)
    
    truncate      (Optional) How to truncate content that exceeds space in a table cell.
                  Mode can be 'beginning' or 'end'. (STRING, default value 'end')
    
    verbose       (Optional) Displays the query that makes up the view.
                  (BOOLEAN, default value false)
    
    <view>        (Mandatory) Name of the view or event type to display.
                  See list below for available views. (STRING, no default value)
    
    width         (Optional) The width of the view in characters
                  (INTEGER, no default value)



